## The code of the paper ["A Closer Look at Transformers for Time Series Forecasting: Understanding Why They Work and Where They Struggle"](https://openreview.net/forum?id=kHEVCfES4Q).

### Introduction

The code was extended from the [time series models library](https://github.com/thuml/Time-Series-Library). All the transfromers compared in the paper are using the implementation from this library except specific extentions described in the paper. 

### Datasets

Please download the benchmark datasets according to the instructions in [time series models library](https://github.com/thuml/Time-Series-Library). 

The simulated datasets can be generated by the following two files in `data_provider` folder: `sim_dependent_data.py` and `sim_independent_data.py`.

### Basic Usage

`requirement.txt` includes packages we installed in the virtual environment for running all experiments.

`run.py` is for training and testing models and is inherited from [time series models library](https://github.com/thuml/Time-Series-Library) with some additional configurations. 

`est_mi.py` is for estimating Mutual information Scores of trained models. Please note that `est_mi.py` will require large GPU memory for datasets with a large number of features. `est_mi_slow.py` is for such cases that needs to fit into a small GPU memory.

Please find example scripts of running these files in the `script` folder. Specific configurations for extentions described in the paper:

    `--no_skip`: if it's True, skip connection in attention layer will be removed. Only iTransformer used this configuration in the experiments included in the paper.

    `--fuse_decoder`: Add a fuse layer to enable capturing interaction between variables in the decoder. True or False. Only iTransformer used this configuration in the experiments included in the paper.

    `--decoder_type`: when `--fuse_decoder` set to True , this can be set to 'conv2d' or 'MLP' to specify the type of an additional fuse layer in the decoder. 

    `--no_zero_norm`: if it's True, zero-score normalization will be removed. Crossformer, iTransformer, PatchTST, and TimeXer used this configuration in the experiments included in the paper.

### Cite the paper
    @inproceedings{
    chen2025a,
    title={A Closer Look at Transformers for Time Series Forecasting: Understanding Why They Work and Where They Struggle},
    author={Yu Chen and Nathalia C{\'e}spedes and Payam Barnaghi},
    booktitle={Forty-second International Conference on Machine Learning},
    year={2025},
    url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=kHEVCfES4Q}
    }

### Concat
Please feel free to contact me by this email yc14600@gmail.com if you have any questions. 